Replaces iron and copper "ore veins" with large "calcite veins", for all vanilla ore types. Encourages chunk mining and excavation of a wider area.

## About

This mod adds "calcite veins" to the game. A much bigger ore vein than vanilla, but the ores are separated and spread out more than usual to encourage chunk mining and excavation projects. It replaces vanilla "motherloads" of iron and copper, but adds veins for every vanilla ore. It does not replace the small "chunks" of ores in any way.

The size of these veins varies greatly. Sometimes you will find a vein with 30 diamonds inside, other times you will find a vein with 300 diamonds inside. But they are not always easy to mine out, so they can provide a long-term mining goal. They are certainly not balanced in any way. You **can** get lucky and completely break the emerald economy or skip straight to an endless diamond source. You might also find nothing, because theyre generated by noise maps and not fairly distributed in each chunk.

These veins do not have air exposure reduction, so noise caves are the best way to find them.

I made this mod to solve a really specific issue. If you use both "Universal Ores" and "Completionists Index", then 100% completion requires you to find one of every "calcite ore" in the game. But these are almost impossible to find. So, this mod was a way to let players find those rare blocks, and also turn it into a game mechanic.

## Spawning

Each different ore type has a specific height at which they generate:

Coal - 60 to 16
Copper - 60 to -16
Iron - 60 to -32
Gold - 32 to -32
Lapis - 16 to -48
Redstone - 16 to -32
Diamond - -16 to -64
Emerald - -16 to -64

In the Nether, gold nuggets and quartz generate in "blackstone" veins, which work exactly the same way. These can appear at any height, and also generate in the bedrock ceiling, allowing easier access to the nether roof (see gallery).

## Datapack

This mod is mostly datapack-driven, with the Java code only editing the vanilla motherload generation to hardcode in calcite blocks. If you would like to customise the ore generation, or add new ones, see the data folder in the source code on Github.

## Compatibility

This was made for a personal modpack, and as a result, theres a hacky overwrite of the entire create() method of OreVeinSampler. This is bad, and probably breaks compatibility with other mods that changed this method.

This should be safe to uninstall at any time (as long as you keep universal ores installed). If you install this to an existing world, the veins will only generate in newly loaded chunks. A new world is recommended.

## Requirements

https://modrinth.com/mod/universal_ores
https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/custom-ore-veins
